transactions.md, before:

# Revault transactions

All transactions are version 2 and use version 0 native Segwit scripts.

We use [miniscript](http://bitcoin.sipa.be/miniscript/) and output descriptors to generally
describe outputs spending policies.

We denote `N` the number of stakeholders, `M` the number of fund managers (allowed
to unlock the unvault transaction output along with the cosigning servers after a timeout),
and `X` the CSV value in the unvault transaction. Each transaction type here signals 
replace-by-fee (RBF).

- [deposit_tx](#deposit_tx)
- [unvault_tx](#unvault_tx)
- [spend_tx](#spend_tx)
- [cancel_tx](#cancel_tx)
- [emergency_txs](#emergency_txs)
    - [vault_emergency_tx](#vault_emergency_tx)
    - [unvault_emergency_tx](#unvault_emergency_tx)


## deposit_tx

The transaction which deposits into the vault.

#### IN

N/A

#### OUT

At least one output paying to `vault_descriptor`, with:
```
vault_descriptor = wsh(vault_witness_script)
vault_witness_script = thresh(N, pubkey1, pubkey2, ..., pubkeyN)
```


## unvault_tx

The transaction which spends the [`deposit_tx`](deposit_tx) deposit output, and creates an
unvault output spendable by the `N` stakeholders or the managers (along with the cosigning
servers) after `X` blocks.

- version: 2
- locktime: 0

#### IN

- count: 1
- inputs[0]:
    - txid: `<deposit_tx txid>`
    - vout: N/A
    - sequence: `0xfffffffd`
    - scriptSig: `<empty>`
    - witness: `satisfy(vault_descriptor)`

#### OUT

- count: 2
- outputs[0]:
    - value: `<deposit_tx output value - tx_fee - 330>`
    - scriptPubkey: `unvault_descriptor`

- outputs[1]:
    - value: `330`
    - scriptPubkey: `cpfp_descriptor`

With:
```
unvault_descriptor = wsh(unvault_witness_script)
unvault_witness_script = or(1@thresh(len(stakeholders), stakeholders), 9@and(thresh(len(managers), managers), and(thresh(len(cosigners), cosigners), older(X))))
```

```
cpfp_descriptor = wsh(cpfp_witness_script)
cpfp_witness_script = thresh(1, pubkey1, pubkey2, ..., pubkeyM) # The pubkeys being the managers'
```

## spend_tx

The transaction which spends the [`unvault_tx`](unvault_tx) `output[0]` by the [`M` + cosigners]
path, only spendable after `X` blocks.

- version: 2
- locktime: 0

#### IN

- count: 1
- inputs[0]:
    - txid: `<unvault_tx txid>`
    - sequence: `X`
    - scriptSig: `<empty>`
    - witness: `satisfy(unvault_descriptor)`

#### OUT

- count: 1
- outputs[0]:
    - value: `<unvault_tx outputs[0] value - tx_fee - 330>`
    - scriptPubkey: N/A
- outputs[1]:
    - value: `330sats`
    - scriptPubkey: `cpfp_descriptor`


## cancel_tx

The transaction which spends the [`unvault_tx`](unvault_tx) `output[0]` using the N-of-N path and 
pays back to a vault txout (it is therefore another vault deposit transaction).

- version: 2
- locktime: 0

#### IN

- count: 1
- inputs[0]:
    - txid: `<unvault_tx txid>`
    - vout: 0
    - sequence: `0xfffffffd`
    - scriptSig: `<empty>`
    - witness: `satisfy(unvault_descriptor)`

#### OUT

- count: 1
- outputs[0]:
    - value: `<unvault_tx outputs[0] value - tx_fee>`
    - scriptPubkey: `vault_descriptor`


## emergency_txs

Emergency transactions are used as deterrents against threats targetting stakeholders' 
funds. They lock coins to what we call an EDV (Emergency Deep Vault): a script chosen 
by the participants and kept obfuscated by the properties of P2WSH, as the emergency 
transactions are never meant to be used.


### vault_emergency_tx

The transaction which spends the [`vault_tx`](vault_tx) output to the EDV by the `N`-of-`N` path.

- version: 2
- locktime: 0

#### IN

- count: 1
- inputs[0]:
    - txid: `<deposit_tx txid>`
    - vout: N/A
    - sequence: `0xfffffffd`
    - scriptSig: `<empty>`
    - witness: `satisfy(vault_descriptor)`

#### OUT

- count: 1
- outputs[0]:
    - value: `<vault_tx output value - fees>`
    - scriptPubkey: `0x00 SHA256(<EDV_script>)`


### unvault_emergency_tx

This transaction spends the [`unvault_tx`](unvault_tx) `output[0]` to the EDV by the `N`-of-`N` path.

- version: 2
- locktime: 0

#### IN

- count: 1
- inputs[0]:
    - txid: `<unvault_tx txid>`
    - vout: 0
    - sequence: `0xfffffffd`
    - scriptSig: `<empty>`
    - witness: `satisfy(unvault_descriptor)`

#### OUT

- count: 1
- outputs[0]:
    - value: `<unvault_tx outputs[0] value - fees>`
    - scriptPubkey: `0x00 SHA256(<EDV_script>)`

Commit message:

Increase CPFP outputs value and revaulting transactions feerate
Rationale for CPFP outputs: don't create dust outputs.

Rationale for CPFP outputs' value: see
https://github.com/re-vault/practical-revault/issues/44#issuecomment-734909605
but in a nutshell it's based on expectations of a lower bound median
feerate of 32sat/vbyte in 2021, at least 3 managers and doubled to not
create a dust output out of the child fee-bumping transaction itself.

Rationale for revaulting transactions feerate: reduce cost on the
watchtower by suck part of the feerate from the vaults themselves.

Fixes https://github.com/re-vault/practical-revault/issues/44#issuecomment-734909605

Signed-off-by: Antoine Poinsot <darosior@protonmail.com>

transactions.md, after:

# Revault transactions

All transactions are version 2 and use version 0 native Segwit scripts.

We use [miniscript](http://bitcoin.sipa.be/miniscript/) and output descriptors to generally
describe outputs spending policies.

We denote `N` the number of stakeholders, `M` the number of fund managers (allowed
to unlock the unvault transaction output along with the cosigning servers after a timeout),
and `X` the CSV value in the unvault transaction. Each transaction type here signals 
replace-by-fee (RBF).

- [deposit_tx](#deposit_tx)
- [unvault_tx](#unvault_tx)
- [spend_tx](#spend_tx)
- [cancel_tx](#cancel_tx)
- [emergency_txs](#emergency_txs)
    - [vault_emergency_tx](#vault_emergency_tx)
    - [unvault_emergency_tx](#unvault_emergency_tx)


## deposit_tx

The transaction which deposits into the vault.

#### IN

N/A

#### OUT

At least one output paying to `vault_descriptor`, with:
```
vault_descriptor = wsh(vault_witness_script)
vault_witness_script = thresh(N, pubkey1, pubkey2, ..., pubkeyN)
```


## unvault_tx

The transaction which spends the [`deposit_tx`](deposit_tx) deposit output, and creates an
unvault output spendable by the `N` stakeholders or the managers (along with the cosigning
servers) after `X` blocks.

- version: 2
- locktime: 0

#### IN

- count: 1
- inputs[0]:
    - txid: `<deposit_tx txid>`
    - vout: N/A
    - sequence: `0xfffffffd`
    - scriptSig: `<empty>`
    - witness: `satisfy(vault_descriptor)`

#### OUT

- count: 2
- outputs[0]:
    - value: `<deposit_tx output value - tx_fee - 330>`
    - scriptPubkey: `unvault_descriptor`

- outputs[1]:
    - value: `30000`
    - scriptPubkey: `cpfp_descriptor`

With:
```
unvault_descriptor = wsh(unvault_witness_script)
unvault_witness_script = or(1@thresh(len(stakeholders), stakeholders), 9@and(thresh(len(managers), managers), and(thresh(len(cosigners), cosigners), older(X))))
```

```
cpfp_descriptor = wsh(cpfp_witness_script)
cpfp_witness_script = thresh(1, pubkey1, pubkey2, ..., pubkeyM) # The pubkeys being the managers'
```

## spend_tx

The transaction which spends the [`unvault_tx`](unvault_tx) `output[0]` by the [`M` + cosigners]
path, only spendable after `X` blocks.
The CPFP output value is adjusted depending on the actual transaction size.

- version: 2
- locktime: 0

#### IN

- count: 1
- inputs[0]:
    - txid: `<unvault_tx txid>`
    - sequence: `X`
    - scriptSig: `<empty>`
    - witness: `satisfy(unvault_descriptor)`

#### OUT

- count: 1
- outputs[0]:
    - value: `<unvault_tx outputs[0] value - tx_fee - 330>`
    - scriptPubkey: N/A
- outputs[1]:
    - value: `2 * 32 * tx_size_vbytes`
    - scriptPubkey: `cpfp_descriptor`


## cancel_tx

The transaction which spends the [`unvault_tx`](unvault_tx) `output[0]` using the N-of-N path and 
pays back to a vault txout (it is therefore another vault deposit transaction).

- version: 2
- locktime: 0

#### IN

- count: 1
- inputs[0]:
    - txid: `<unvault_tx txid>`
    - vout: 0
    - sequence: `0xfffffffd`
    - scriptSig: `<empty>`
    - witness: `satisfy(unvault_descriptor)`

#### OUT

- count: 1
- outputs[0]:
    - value: `<unvault_tx outputs[0] value - tx_fee>`
    - scriptPubkey: `vault_descriptor`


## emergency_txs

Emergency transactions are used as deterrents against threats targetting stakeholders' 
funds. They lock coins to what we call an EDV (Emergency Deep Vault): a script chosen 
by the participants and kept obfuscated by the properties of P2WSH, as the emergency 
transactions are never meant to be used.


### vault_emergency_tx

The transaction which spends the [`vault_tx`](vault_tx) output to the EDV by the `N`-of-`N` path.

- version: 2
- locktime: 0

#### IN

- count: 1
- inputs[0]:
    - txid: `<deposit_tx txid>`
    - vout: N/A
    - sequence: `0xfffffffd`
    - scriptSig: `<empty>`
    - witness: `satisfy(vault_descriptor)`

#### OUT

- count: 1
- outputs[0]:
    - value: `<vault_tx output value - fees>`
    - scriptPubkey: `0x00 SHA256(<EDV_script>)`


### unvault_emergency_tx

This transaction spends the [`unvault_tx`](unvault_tx) `output[0]` to the EDV by the `N`-of-`N` path.

- version: 2
- locktime: 0

#### IN

- count: 1
- inputs[0]:
    - txid: `<unvault_tx txid>`
    - vout: 0
    - sequence: `0xfffffffd`
    - scriptSig: `<empty>`
    - witness: `satisfy(unvault_descriptor)`

#### OUT

- count: 1
- outputs[0]:
    - value: `<unvault_tx outputs[0] value - fees>`
    - scriptPubkey: `0x00 SHA256(<EDV_script>)`
